Hi and welcome back.
So let's jump right into the code and let's look at how we can stop parameterize of decorator's.
So first we're going to need the timed decorator that we've been working with.
Let's go ahead and just rewrite it from scratch just to get some more practice.
So from time import lbf calendar and then we need to define our in a function in a function will be
as generic as possible by doing stuff arms and danced Akeda and we're going to need first to start our
timer.
So let's go ahead and also time what we need to find out what the current time is then we're going to
call our function.
And finally we need to time on when you do go ahead and figure out what the current time is now.
Finished running.
So elapsed time equals and minus stuff.
It was writing it out in more lines but you could it's of course collapsable spur of counter called
minus stand right that would work the same way.
And then let's go ahead and print run time and we're going to do this to six digits after the decimal
point.
So it took so many seconds to run.
And what was the run time while it was elapsed.
Right.
And if I can type we'll get that right.
And one more quick and then we're going to return the result.
And then finally we need to return on in a function.
So that's all decorator's.
Now let's go ahead and use the Fibonacci numbers again because we know that I can you know make this
run long if I want to pretty easily.
I'm not going to use a memorized version.
I'm going to use a recursive version non-motorized.
So it's it will get pretty inefficient once you start reaching higher numbers like you know even 30
35.
So let's go ahead and do this.
So let's call it Kelk Furber recurse and we need to tell it you know which number we want.
And so we're going to return one if end is less than 3.
Else we're going to return Kelk Furber recurse and minus two plus Kelk verb brickworks and minus 1 cr.
That's just our regular recursive formula for the Banaji numbers.
Now I don't want to time this recursive function because if I go ahead and decorate calc for breaker's
then every time it gets called inside and we've seen this before it's going to again time it.
And so it's going to time everything it's going to time.
You know my initial call to the recursive function as well as all the recursion calls and I don't want
that.
I just want to find out what the overall time was.
So what I'm going to do instead is basically wrap this into another function.
So let's call it the Banaji end and all it's going to do is to return Kelk Ferb recurse and.
And so this way I can decorate fib and it will actually just tell me how long it took to run fib.
Not how long it took to run the individual recursive calls.
Again we've seen this before.
So now I could just know run let's say for about 20 k.
That seems to work.
So let's go ahead and decorate it.
How do we decorate it.
Well we have two ways of doing it.
One way is we could have said at tined gay have decorated it this way.
So now if I call fib 20 you will see that it tells us the run time now as well as the result of running
that.
So that was one way of doing it.
But I want to use the long way for a for a little while because that longways going to get us into a
position where we can use our parameters.
So we're going to say fib equals times of food.
Right.
That's how we decorate.
So this would be our initial set up.
We've got the recursive call we've got the Bonacci and now we decorate the Banaji.
OK so now we've got there we can go ahead and let's say run for the not here.
And that took 0.2 eight seconds and that was the answer.
Now the thing is I don't want to try I'm just using a single run as you know we've seen this again in
the past but very often you want to rerun the same thing multiple times and then get the average of
how long it took to run.
So let's go ahead and let's do that.
Let's tweak our decorator to do that.
What are we going to do.
Well what I'm going to do here is I'm going to put a loop on as I for I in range.
Now that's the problem.
How many times.
Well let's just hand-coded for a second let's say that we're going to run this 10 times.
And what we're going to do now is that we're going to maintain eight total elapsed time and every time
we run this function every time we call this function f and we're going to time it and then our total
elapsed
is going to be whatever it was before plus the current elapsed not what's the current elapsed.
Well it's the end minus that 10.
So that's how we can Luper it now after the loop is done.
Now we want to print the average run time.
So let's go ahead and say this is the average run time and this now is going to be.
What will the average runtime is no longer just elapsed.
Kate it's going to be total elapsed divided by the count.
So let's just say average run time equals total elapsed divided by 10.
Okay.
And then when we're going to therefore print out the average run time and will return results return
just as before and nothing else is change.
So all we've done here is basically repeat the function call 10 times and then we average out with the
average run time is and we print that out and then return the result.
Now we've actually called this function 10 times so there's actually 10 results.
I'm just going to return the last one in this case here.
Where are you going to use the Superman Archie function to decorate.
We should always get the same answer back.
So it doesn't really matter.
Now if you have a function that you try and time that is nondeterministic in other words maybe it has
some random factors in it or is based on time or on values that can change over time every time you
call that function of course you can have a different result.
So you know you may not want to use some timing mechanism like that you may want to only have a single
call to the function so that you get that with that one result back up to you how you want to do it
for these purposes.
This will work just fine.
OK.
So now get on your time decorator.
So we're going to decorate our full function.
Now I have to redefine the full function because right now what is food.
It's the decorated food.
Right.
And I don't want that.
I want to get back to the raw function.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So here's our fab function.
And again we're going to decorate it.
So food is equal to timed fib.
OK.
So now we've got a decorated fib and let's go ahead and run it.
Let's say I'm going to do 28.
So it doesn't run too long.
And as you can see now we have the average run time.
So the average run time was 0.1 and that was the result.
So this is great.
But the problem now of course is that the turn has been hardcoded and we want to get rid of that hard
code.
So let's see how we might do that.
So again I'm just going to copy and paste this function and let's go ahead and put in the number of
repetitions that we want K we'll pass that as the second parameter to the decorator.
So now we have to use reps and here we have to use reps.
OK.
So that's it.
That's all we needed to do.
So now go to parameters.
So now let's go ahead and redefine our third function.
So there we go.
And now let's decorate it.
So how are we going to decorate it.
Well at the time decorator requires two variables right.
Two arguments.
It requires the function which is food.
And it also requires a number of repetitions.
So we want five repetitions.
So now there we go.
We've decorated fib using this time decorator's.
So now we can say fib let's say twenty eight.
So the average runtime is 0.1 now doesn't tell us how many times it ran.
So let's go ahead and put that in and let's just say that we had this many repetitions.
And we'll pass in here reps.
OK.
So let's just rerun that we run this this and this.
And now you can see it tells us OK did five repetitions not ten times that five because that's how we've
decorated the function.
Right.
If we had done differently would have had a different number of repetitions.
So that works and we can certainly decorate our functions using this approach.
But the problem is that if you were to try and do something like this timed you know five let's say
and then def fib are an issue we just copy and paste that will be simpler.
OK.
This is not going to work because time is missing one required positional argument.
While we think it's reps we gave it reps.
But if you look at timed it requires the function and then reps.
Well that's not what's happening here.
Time is being called with just a single parameter right.
The function is over here.
It's not the parameter unlike the way we did it when we actually used the long version of decorating.
So by writing our decorator this way we've lost the ability to decorate functions using this handy syntax
the at decorator syntax.
So we're going to want to fix that.
We want to get around this problem where we can use either way of decorating.
So how are we going to do that.
Well to do that we're there to create a decorator factory and we've discussed that in the lecture.
But let's go ahead first and let's step back and let's look at decorator's again and see what runs and
when it runs and how we can add in those parameters.
Let's create a decorator that's just call a deck and we're going to just print from the decorator itself
running decorators so we'll know when the decorator function is being called.
Now we have to create our in a function which will take our usual style and start our style style variables
arguments.
Then we have a print running in her right so we'll know when we're running in her.
And then we're just going to return the function called.
Yeah.
So this is as simple as it gets for a decorator for very simple decorator doesn't do anything really
other than just basically print those two statements so as just injecting that.
So let's go ahead now and decorate so we can decorate a function using at the at our syntax.
This is the short syntax.
Dirk my funk and then will just say print running my phone.
OK so now if I execute this you can see what happened.
We got print printed running deck.
Right.
Well that's because this decorator function was called.
This syntax is no different than doing it this way.
And this is why I keep going back to the long syntax.
So we have left my funk.
OK.
So here's the function.
It's undecorated.
And now I'm decorating it by actually making the call to the decorator.
And now you see again we get running duck.
Well yeah because we just called decorator right.
So this is what's happening when we use this short syntax here.
And now of course I can call my phunk.
Right.
So the parentheses means I'm calling it.
And what happens while I'm running in it.
Well sure.
Because what is my phunk it is the inner function right.
Because that was what was returned when we decorated it and then that in turn called fan.
And so we see running my phunk also in there.
So that's how the decorator runs.
Now let's go ahead and change this.
So that deck is no longer the decorator that we use in here.
And what I mean by this is I'm going to create a function that's going to return the decorator deck.
Right.
And that's all it's going to do.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And let's call this maybe deck factory.
OK so this is our factory function.
It doesn't take any parameters not non-right right now anyways.
And what is it going to do.
Well we're going to just cut and paste this code over here.
OK.
And in here I'm going to say print running deck factory then I'm going to paste in my decorator's.
There it is.
This is our original decorator.
Nothing's changed.
And now of course I have to return the decorator.
OK so now we have a decorator factory.
So what does this mean.
Well it means that in order to decorate a function I'm going to have to get the decorator by calling
the decorator factory.
So I might do something like this.
That equals deck factory.
OK what is this going to be what is Deck going to be.
It's going to be whatever gets returned here.
The decorated by the decorator is being returned by the factory function and that's the critical point
in all this.
Right.
If long as you understand this then that's it.
We're over the hump.
It's fairly straightforward.
Now this factory creates and returns the decorator that we want.
So now that is a decorator's.
And as you can see we printed running decorator factory and now we can go ahead and decorate a function.
So let me go ahead and take this and let's redefine my funk.
So there's my undecorated function my funk How do I decorate it.
Well I can say my funk equals decorator of my funk.
Right.
I can do it this way.
And it ends you can see now we get running deck because we just decorated the function and we can call
my funk and then we get the same thing as before running in air.
Running my funk so we could decorate it this way.
But of course if we decorate this way we could also do it this way.
So let's go ahead and let me delete those and let's go ahead now and Soghoian under-rated my funk and
here I'm going to decorated with deck.
OK.
We can use that.
Schultz and Texas it's the same thing.
OK.
And then we can call my funk and we get the same thing as before.
Now of course what is Deck deck is Deck factory.
So instead of decorating it this way I could say the following.
I would say deck factory.
OK.
And let's use maybe the long syntax.
First if you want but let me show you what this one would look like.
So my phunk print running my phunk play.
So you'll notice now the difference between how we're decorating here there is no function call here
because deck is the decorators here.
There is a function call because deck factory is not the decorator you need to call it in order to get
the decorator back and then apply the decorator to my phunk so we can do it this way.
It would be no different than doing the following and always kept pace for copy paste.
It was no different than decorating it this way my phunk equals how do we get out.
Well we have to call decorator factory.
And now that is going to return the decorator with then call that decorator with my phunk So this is
no different.
You can see we had the same output in both cases we called DEC factory first that would turn the decorator
which was then applied to my funk.
Same thing here we called the factory got the decorator back and then ran that with my phunk as a parameter.
And you called the decorator.
So that's how the factory function decorator works.
Now let's go ahead and let's start injecting now some variable some parameters into this.
So let's go ahead and I'm going to just copy paste death though decorator factory and let's go ahead
and let's say put in two parameters.
So here we have two parameters.
And what I'm going to do here is I'm going to use those parameters now.
Inside this in a function.
Right.
Those are going to be non-local variables A and B.
So in a closure that's going to contain a and b is free variables.
So let's go ahead and print that.
And let's go ahead and say prom's Well actually is to say a equals and B equals this way.
OK so that's the only difference.
So you'll notice now that I didn't add the parameters to the decorator the way we did it with the time
decorator in the beginning of this video instead I added the decorators to the fact the decorators.
I added the parameters to the factory function but I can actually reference those parameters inside
my decorator's inner closures.
So now we have this how we're going to create the decorator while to create the decorator and we have
to call the factory OK just as before.
But now the factory requires two parameters let's say 10 and 20.
For now we have this decorator and you can see that we ran the factory function and we have this decorated
deck and we can go ahead and decorate a function using that.
So we can say X deck and my phone.
And now you can see it ran the decorator.
And now if I call my phunk what's going to happen.
Well it's going to call this in a function right because this is what after we've decorated my phunk
using the decorator.
What are we actually running the in a function.
It's going to print running in there.
It's going to print the variables a and b that were defined and passed in his arguments up here.
OK.
And then it's going to call the function.
So when we do that we have running in it.
We have A's and B's 20 and running my funk.
So of course we can decorate it using this syntax we can say at DEC where the factory right.
It's not the decorator anymore we're going to use the factory directly so we're going to do what we
did over here.
And in this case maybe I'll call it 100 and 200 others change the variables.
So now what do we have here.
Well we have this decorator factory that was called and it returned the decorator.
And so now we can go ahead and decorate it function with it.
So there we go.
So we have again running the factory and then running the decorators.
Well sure because this was what we did here in multiple steps we achieved in one step here using the
shortened syntax the add.
So DECT factory was called it returned decorator.
And the at symbol applied the decorator to the function.
And so now when we call my fonk we get running in there is 100 bees 200 running my phunk.
All right.
So that's how we can use decorator factories to actually put put essentially parameters into our decorator's.
And as you can see we can use the shortened syntax as well.
Of course we could have written it this way as well.
The long syntax.
Let me just show you that just for completeness.
So now we could say my func equals decorator factory.
Let's say 150 to 15 is just again just make the parameters different.
So you can see we're calling the factory that call is going to return the decorator and that decorator
we're now going to call with my funk.
And so we get the same thing as before.
And if we call my phone you can see that the parameters 150 and 250 were retained in that quarter.
Okay.
So now we know how to create essentially parameterised decorator's and we do it not by modifying the
parameters to the decorator but by creating a decorator factory an out of function that encompasses
and returns our decorator.
But because of closures we can now pass those parameters from the older function from the out of factory
function to the decorator itself.
So let's go back to our time.
So let's go back and grab this one right.
This is the one that was timed.
Actually we don't want this one sorry.
I want the one with the parameter for the repetitions.
So let's go ahead and bring this back down here.
So this is just a simple copy paste.
Now we can put in the parameter here.
Right.
But instead what are we going to do.
Well let's call is our ours.
Or if you want DEC factory
and this one is going to take the parameter reps.
This is going to stay exactly as is.
Right.
And so you can see reps hishe and Reps here means which one it means.
This one over here.
The one that's passed into the factory function.
Now of course our factory function needs to return the decorator.
So we're going to return on time.
So now we have our decorator factory for the timed decorator's.
Right.
So the factory is going to return the timed decorator's.
So let me go back and grab this and let's go ahead and decorate it.
Now
well we're going to call the deck factory now we need to pass it the number of repetitions we want let's
say five I want five repetitions.
So whenever I call fib now it's going to use five repetitions.
So I might say a fib of 28 and you can see we had five repetitions right here.
If I had change that to 15 and do the same thing
then you can see it we've run 15 times.
OK.
So we're almost there.
The last thing we want to clean up is the deck factory.
That's really not what we want this code.
We want to be called tined.
Right.
That was the name that we have for the decorator.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to change to do is just change the name of DECT factory and call
it time.
And then this one in here.
I'm going to change it so I don't have any confusion between this time and this time.
I'm just going to call it Dec which means that here we need to return the decorator's.
Right.
So this functions the old timer function.
So I've done is just rename those two functions just to clean that up a little bit which means that
now when I want to decorate I can just call it timeout.
But of course time now is no longer the decorator.
Time is the decorator factory it takes in the parameter 15 that will be used when the decorator is created
and returned by the decorator factory.
And so now we can call FEBE.
Say 28 again and it will work as expected with 15 repetitions of the Fibonacci function generator.
All right.
So hopefully this explains quite clearly how parameterised decorator's work.
We don't actually parameterised the decorator's.
What we do is we create a decorator factory that has the parameters and then that's then able to be
referenced from the decorator since it will now be a closure itself within the decorator factory.
Again that then gets returned and applied to whatever function with decorating.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.